---
layout: post
title:  "Google Summer of Code : Mid Term Evaluation"
categories: ['gsoc']
permalink:  "mid-term"
date:   2016-06-28 11:08:35 -0200
---
<h1> Mid Term Evaluation </h1>
The results of the mid term evaluation for GSoC 2016 came out today. I've been a bit busy with completing the project and so didn't have the time to write about my progess in the past few weeks.

<h3> Lets Begin </h3>
I started with the very first feature to be implemented, displaying games in strategic form. A game can be represented in two forms

> Extensive Form
> Strategic Form

Extensive form had already been implemented by the person working on jsgte before me. My job was to wrap up the strategic form.
It began with learning about rendering in svg.js. This wass followed by creating the following classes : 
 - Matrix.js
 - Strategty.js
 - StrategicBlock.js

These were interlinked together to provide rendering of three important games in strategic form, namely : 
 - General Games
 - Zero Sum Games
 - Symmetric Games

The whole task took about 2 weeks to implement. By the first week of June I had the strategic form in a workable state. It is currently available in the strategic-form branch of jsgte and is yet to be merged.

<h3> Server Communication </h3>
After the strategic form implementation, the most urgent task at hand was to implement communication between the games that were displayed to the user and the algorithm to solve it. 
The first algorithm to be implemented was lrs.
After spending a day on understanding and installing the lrs-lib, a server was implemented in node.js to complete the task. 
The reason for choosing node.js was largely to keep the code consistant in javascript.
The work on this is on the same branch as Strategic Form implementation.

<h3> Load/Save </h3>
This was followed by implemeting the load/save functionality.
The idea is to save the extensive form of a game in xml format.
I made two classes, xmlImporter and xmlExporter. 
The xmlImporter class functions to import a game in xml form and convert it to tree form.
The xmlExprter class functions in the exact opposite way.
The work on this feature is yet to be merged and can be found in the load-save branch of my [fork](//github.com/hkirat/jsgte). 

About 60% of the work on the project is complete. In the weeks to come I will be working on the undo/redo feature and do some front end tweeks.
